Towards evening , after they had passed Cesne , he was awakened by lively
music , and found himself confronted with a village fair . The horses
were changed near the marketplace . Whilst the postilions were engaged
in making the transfer , he saw the people dancing merrily , pretty and
attractive girls with flowers about them , excited youths , and finally
the jolly wine @-@ flushed countenances of old peasants . Children prattled ,
old women laughed and chatted ; everything spoke in one voice , and there
was a holiday gaiety about everything , down to their clothing and the
tables that were set out . A cheerful expression pervaded the square and
the church , the roofs and windows ; even the very doorways of the village
seemed likewise to be in holiday trim .

Raphael could not repress an angry exclamation , nor yet a wish to
silence the fiddles , annihilate the stir and bustle , stop the clamor ,
and disperse the ill @-@ timed festival ; like a dying man , he felt unable
to endure the slightest sound , and he entered his carriage much annoyed .
When he looked out upon the square from the window , he saw that all the
happiness was scared away ; the peasant women were in flight , and the
benches were deserted . Only a blind musician , on the scaffolding of the
orchestra , went on playing a shrill tune on his clarionet . That piping
of his , without dancers to it , and the solitary old man himself , in the
shadow of the lime @-@ tree , with his curmudgeon &apos;s face , scanty hair , and
ragged clothing , was like a fantastic picture of Raphael &apos;s wish . The
heavy rain was pouring in torrents ; it was one of those thunderstorms
that June brings about so rapidly , to cease as suddenly . The thing was
so natural , that , when Raphael had looked out and seen some pale clouds
driven over by a gust of wind , he did not think of looking at the piece
of skin . He lay back again in the corner of his carriage , which was very
soon rolling upon its way .

The next day found him back in his home again , in his own room , beside
his own fireside . He had had a large fire lighted ; he felt cold .
Jonathan brought him some letters ; they were all from Pauline . He opened
the first one without any eagerness , and unfolded it as if it had
been the gray @-@ paper form of application for taxes made by the revenue
collector . He read the first sentence :

&quot; Gone ! This really is a flight , my Raphael . How is it ? No one can tell
me where you are . And who should know if not I ? &quot;

He did not wish to learn any more . He calmly took up the letters
and threw them in the fire , watching with dull and lifeless eyes the
perfumed paper as it was twisted , shriveled , bent , and devoured by the
capricious flames . Fragments that fell among the ashes allowed him to
see the beginning of a sentence , or a half @-@ burnt thought or word ; he
took a pleasure in deciphering them -- a sort of mechanical amusement .

&quot; Sitting at your door -- expected -- Caprice -- I obey -- Rivals -- I , never ! -- thy
Pauline -- love -- no more of Pauline ? -- If you had wished to leave me for
ever , you would not have deserted me -- Love eternal -- To die -- -- &quot;

The words caused him a sort of remorse ; he seized the tongs , and rescued
a last fragment of the letter from the flames .

&quot; I have murmured , &quot; so Pauline wrote , &quot; but I have never complained , my
Raphael ! If you have left me so far behind you , it was doubtless because
you wished to hide some heavy grief from me . Perhaps you will kill me
one of these days , but you are too good to torture me . So do not go away
from me like this . There ! I can bear the worst of torment , if only I
am at your side . Any grief that you could cause me would not be grief .
There is far more love in my heart for you than I have ever yet shown
you . I can endure anything , except this weeping far away from you , this
ignorance of your -- -- &quot;

Raphael laid the scorched scrap on the mantelpiece , then all at once he
flung it into the fire . The bit of paper was too clearly a symbol of his
own love and luckless existence .
